I work on people problems. I’m looking to improve, improve the quality of life for my family, my community, and myself. Describe myself in a single word, strive.

I’ve been married over 24 years, and we have 6 kids through adoption.

I grew up in Kentucky on a small hobby farm, and ran away to the Air Force the week after high school graduation. The Air Force saw something in me that I couldn’t see for myself yet, a capacity to learn. I was sent to the Defense Language Institute to learn German and a little Russian. The highlight of my Air Force career was sitting on the Berlin wall the night it came down. At such an early age (17 to 24), I wasn’t mature enough for the Air Force, and I got out after nearly 7 years.

Dropped off in Omaha, I started selling cars to make a living. Invited to sell maintenance and repairs, I moved to the service garage. Such a tough job, but it paid well for my limited experience level. I took a break from the service garage to try my hand at selling insurance and retirement funds. The details are boring, but the result was dismal. I fell into a deep depression and had to rely on help from my brother to stay afloat. Embarrassed and wounded, I returned to selling vehicles and to the service garage.

My wife set me up on a blind date with the husband of a friend of hers. We hit it off right away. He was so kind. He took me under his wing. We went straight to the bookstore and purchase a technical book on the IBM Unix operating system. He would come over everyday after I got off work, and we’d study together. I burned the candle at both ends. I saw this technical work as my way out. Changing careers has become a theme of mine now, but it takes a lot of work. My friend was going to help me join his company. He got me an interview with CEO. The CEO was wonderful to meet with me, and we both agreed that I didn’t have any technical experience or the right level of sales experience.

A few months later, the CEO allowed me to start as a project manager. Within 6 months, I had become a qualified expert in IBM’s eyes. I was off to the races. I loved it.

I feel in love with a particular part of the technology called High Availability. I had traveled to Boston a few times to train with the company that wrote the software, and I dreamed of working for them someday. I got my chance at a branch office and moved to Texas to become an IBM authorized trainer. A few months into the job and 9/11 happened. The company wasn’t prepared for the sudden lack of students, and I had to move back to Omaha.

I like to joke that I was unemployed for a weekend. I started in a local hospital as a systems admin. It’s like being a professional plumber for computers. It was a great job. I was overqualified, but I needed the job. I wrote some automation to check for errors, and I struggled to find work to do. One day my boss walked by and commented that he could see me working here until I retired. I panicked. I’m not even sure why, but I left soon after and went into selling technology for the same company that had hired me as a project manager.

Being a technical-expert-turned-salesperson, I was very successful. The technology was difficult, and I knew it better than most. It was a fun place to be. Over the years the technology evolved and become easier to use. An expert wasn’t needed as much as before. I could see the writing on the wall, and I shifted to a general sales rep.

I made a reputation for myself getting in to see brand new clients. And the company I was selling for gave me my old hospital as a client too. It had been a few years, and the first time I visited the Director, he closed the door. He asked me if I’d consider coming back as a manager. I was in the middle of my MBA program, and I didn’t have management experience yet — at least not in the tech world. I jumped at the chance.

It was a rocky time for the hospital. I changed the culture from a traditional sit-in-the-room-and-wait-to-be-called to a get-out-and-visit mentality. It’s a long story, but in short, I moved the tech team to be more like a sales team. It was going wonderful until the hospital decided to outsource most of the operation. I left after the contract was signed.

IBM was the mothership then for all things technical, and I was excited to join the team. What I remember best was the training. I had amazing experiences learning as much as possible. I made trips to Harvard, Wharton and other technical conferences. My timing wasn’t the best, and as IBM shifted more to the cloud and away from what I was selling, I had to find a new job – again.

By this time, I had earned my MBA from Creighton University, was awarded graduate student of the year, and was invited to teach, “anything, anytime”. LIttle did I know then that I’d end up being a full time instructor for Creighton.

I left technology behind and started a new career shift. I had a team of salespeople selling private jet memberships. So much fun. The team was great, and I had so much leeway to do what needed to be done. I learned a lot about hiring. My first attempts were disappointing. I caused a lot of pain by hiring too quickly and not discovering the best fit for the job. I got it figured out, and turnover dropped to an all time low. I was asked to leave when a hired consultant convinced the owners he could do a better job than I could. I’m so thankful for the experience, and I’d do it again even if the outcome was going to remain the same.

A friend needed help, and I was hired to assist with sewing together 4 companies into one larger corporation. The role was risky. I was told coming in it could be 6 months to a year, and we’d have to find something else. It was 6 months, and we didn’t find something else.

I took a half-hearted plunge into my own consulting. It wasn’t a good fit for me. I’ve spent so many years with support and being part of a team that I found it difficult to be a one-man shop. It did help pay the bills while I searched for something permanent.

A friend recommended me for her old role when she left, and I got a job selling technology. I was home again. I took off, was going great, and coronavirus changed the economy overnight. I was laid off after only 9 months at the company.

I’ve drifted back to a more technical focus, and I’ve loving it. Unlike my first exposure back in the late 90s, everything is online and nearly free. I feel like a kid in a candy store. I’m currently teaching at Creighton University. I’ll do some consulting on the side and work on projects I find interesting.

Teaching at the university level is my dream job. Where I go from here is a mystery, and I’m eager to see how it unfolds, very grateful.
